>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what I will do for
a demonstration, let's do one more output.
Output, remember that,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Metadata or
decorators are functions.
So don't forget your parentheses.
And let's just say jammin.
Now we'll go new EventEmitter().
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
then let's go to our items component.html.
And so now that I've created an output
called jammin, how do I bind to that?
>> Speaker 3: They're in jammin?
>> Speaker 2: Jammed?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're jammin.
>> Speaker 3: Banana jam.
It's kinda neat because you
can look at the parent and
see everything that it's capable of doing.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes I mean we
are looking, like this is the contract.
That's what I love.
It's like input, output, output,
output rr this is what this takes.
And you can see, so.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We're just
gonna do something nonsensical.
Let's go into our items component
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In my mind I'm trying
to think of like if I was Jamaica and
how would I actually type it, anyways.
So just in your mind when you read this do
it with a Jamaican accent please, okay?
So jammin.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Jammin.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
the question is how do we trigger that?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We need
to go to our list component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I don't know,
(mouseenter).
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What's the output?
>> Speaker 2: jammin.emit.
>> Speaker 3: Binding.emit and data.
Item, I don't need to
put anything into it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I mean, I don't
really have, but I'll send the event in,
just to see what happens.
And actually, let's just go back here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So I'm getting
an undefined, and the reason being.
Let's go back to items component and
I'm not passing the event in.
Let's do this one more time.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You notice here, that
because I'm just sending a dollar event
and actually nothing specific, that
I'm getting essentially the dom event.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay, makes sense?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now, let's just do
an input and then we'll have lunch.
So let's think of an input here.
So we're passing in items, I don't know
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: secretMessage,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Like so.
And now that we've created
an input the secretMessage
it's now available in the template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: secretMessage.
Yay!
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
go to items component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Get over here.
So being that we want to input this
>> Speaker 2: Square bracket.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Good, love it.
secretMessage, the fact that
the ID picks that up is tight.
And let's go 'myMessage'.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then from here,
let's do something totally irresponsible.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Ng model,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
here's the question.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What do I do here?
I need this to be two way.
>> Speaker 3: Banana in the box.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Banana in a box.
I'll take it.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then let's go
ahead and just set this property here.
You can tell what I'm thinking about.
Lunch is served.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But,
whoa, why is this happening?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Notice
when I change it here.
>> Speaker 2: [CROSSTALK] It's input.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Not so fast.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let me elaborate.
Let's go back to our items component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Man I
just love this h1 tag.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's make
sure that we do this correct.
So down here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This right here,
and this right here, what's happening?
That's two way data binding.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Or
rather, let me rephrase that.
What's happening in the input
is two way data binding.
But what is happening from here and this
is important to make this distinction,
is because we have two way data binding
between the component and the template.
When we update the template, it updates
the property on the component, but
because then we have one way data binding,
essentially interpolation on the top or
property binding into our sub components.
That when that property
changes at the component, so
remember component to template, when
then property updates it gets sent in,
or rather it updates the child component.
Cuz we're bound to it.
So we're using two-way data binding
to update it from the template
back to the model or
to the component class.
And then when that updates, because we've
bound to it here, it updates as well.
And so this is how you get, or
one of the ways you achieve
a unidirectional data flow.
Because ultimately, what you want
is not only to minimize state, but
you wanna get your state
moving in a single direction.
So state flows down and
events flow up, which with inputs and
outputs like this is perfect.
We have state coming in,
we have events going out.
And so this concept, when we get
into like reactive data management.
When we start talking about these
things like how do you architect
an application to handle not
only state but communication.
This concept of inputs and
outputs, state falling down,
events flowing up,
not only minimizes state because if
we go here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Into
the component itself.
How much internal state do we have?
We're not storing other than just is
really a conduit to the template.
We're not storing state.
We're really just reflecting state.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
now we have these components that
are not only stateless but we can look at
this component as we breathe life into it.
And we know the direction
that data is going in and
we know the direction that
events are coming out.
And so, visually we can look and very
quickly understand, data in, events out.
>> Speaker 5: Hans is taking you to task.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, so I think
Hans is really offended by the fact that
I'm calling omit in the template and
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I
am going to say that we can
agree to disagree on that.
I think that calling into the template
as opposed to abstracting that out
into the controller or the component
class is, there's no benefit to that.
Like you're not getting a performance
gain and I think as well,
especially when you start to get
into observables, is that you'll
actually consume things directly right
off the service in your template.
So I think that at least for
me in the religious sense that
I think just doing output.admit,
I think it's much less
prone to error than actually just
creating a method to pass that through.
We're getting a request to see
where you called the emit,
just to see it in a template again.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So just to for
the sake of conversation,
if we were gonna do this differently.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: The solution to
this would be to handleClick($event)
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: selected.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then from here-
>> Speaker 3: Think you need the emit.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Yep.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right,
so I feel like for
the sake of keeping a method call
out of the template then essentially
what we're doing is we're introducing
even more complexity to avoid that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so this would
be one of those things where, and so
there are cases where you
would wanna capture the event.
Maybe you wanna do some quick
transformation logic as it goes
out the door.
So I'm not saying don't do this.
But I think that introducing
additional code volume, to
essentially a function to call a function,
I have a hard time justifying that.
I mean cuz this function does absolutely
nothing other than really just call
essentially a function.
And so
this is one of these things where, Hans,
if we ever meet in real life, I hope
we're still friends, and a high-five.
But personally, this doesn't offend me.
Cuz I think actually
the alternate is actually,
I think a little bit more complex.
And I prefer not to introduce
code volume into my templates,
or rather into my component classes.
Yes?
>> Speaker 6: So in terms of testing then
with optional and required senses, if I
misspelled jammin as jamming somewhere
else, it'd be like no harm no foul,
I'd just never hear about an event and-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep,
it would just fail silently.
>> Speaker 6: [CROSSTALK]
No TypeScript error?
No Angular errors?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well, let's see.
So TypeScript actually
might throw something.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go
into our Items component.
So now I just went from I'm Jamaican to
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I am from the midwest.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Nothing,
so it's just gonna be I don't
recognize this, I'm not doing anything.
>> Speaker 6: Yeah it's still triggered,
okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What's that?
>> Speaker 6: Well type in the-
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now this is something entirely different.
>> Speaker 6: Right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If I go down here.
>> Speaker 6: Yeah it's flawed.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So that's not working.
>> Speaker 6: Yep.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Anymore questions?
>> Speaker 6: Can you explain in this view
where that dollar event is coming from?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is generated from the EventEmitter.
And so it contains by default,
information about the dom event,
but because we're passing something in
then
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: In
this case like selected
then this just gets
captured as essentially
the item that we're passing in.
>> Speaker 6: So,
can I pass two parameters in,
to [CROSSTALK]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now we're into murky territory, of which,
I do not understand, because I've not been
able to reasonably,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Figure this out.
So I think you can do,
I've tried this before.
Let's just see what happens, test.
We'll do a test parameter.
Then we'll go into our items component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: SelectItem test
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: This may be something
we have to geek out over lunch, but
this is one of these things where if you
don't have item, it still gets called, and
it's still in there, and so
I really get, it's interesting.
Is it a DOM event?
What do you pass in?
What if you need both?
How do you handle that?
Let's go here.
And, yeah.
So it's undefined.
So I think what you have to do
is actually, I remember now.
The only way I've been able to get this
to work is to actually create a custom
object.
Essentially, an event property with
additional payload that you want on it.
So as far as I know,
I think it just takes a single parameter.
I can verify that against the docs but.
We had this question before of what
if you need the event information and
some payload is then.
At that point what I would probably do
is not call it directly in the dom but
I would actually then pull
that into the component class.